Welcome back.
Now hash tables are implemented differently in different languages but most of the time the key and
the value can be any type of data structure.
We saw here that we can have a function as a value we can have another object if we want as a value
we can have an array as a value if we want.
And I mean you can do this in arrays as well.
We don't just have numbers and strings in a race.
We can have arrays of objects but you can also sometimes have keys that are more than just strings.
You could potentially have functions as keys and a value that is also a function or perhaps a number
or an array whatever you want.
Now in Javascript in an object like this if you pass a key that is a number or a function it actually
gets a string you find and it only allows string keys but with the new version of javascript and E6
you actually have something called Map and sets.
Which also may be familiar in other languages.
A map is created like this.
And the difference between a map and an object is the fact that a map allows you to save any data type
as the key.
Remember with an object you can only save the key as a string with a map.
It allows us if we want to even have functions as keys or arrays as keys.
And another benefit of map is that it maintains insertion order.
What does that mean.
Well with an object there is no order is there.
If we go back to our diagram our data is inserted randomly in different places.
If we go back to our users example we see that there is definitely no order when we grab all the values
of an object.
We start with let's say Lisa Smith which was entered second then John Smith then perhaps Sandra Dee
Sam Doe gets selected last.
There is no order like there was with the race but there are some versions of hash tables like maps
and javascript that maintains this order of insertion so that when we loop through items in an object
we have this maintained order sets is a nother feature very similar to map.
The only difference is that it only stores the keys no values.
So you see here each language as we mentioned comes with its own pre-built versions of data structures.
But at the end of the day all of them are hash tables.
But in order to truly understand how hash tables work I think we should build one in the next video
we're going to do just that.